javascript is a programming language and its based on oops based language it is a procedural language ex: java,python,c,c++
the one which computes the computer is processor that is inside the cpu
we have to give instructions to the processors
code is a lines of instructions
procesor is a combination of 0 and 1
any oops language has definitely has procedural concepts into it

**html dom manipulation is imp
static webpage means it cannot be changed like a constant webpage
where as dynamic is a webpage that changes from person to person 
static has 2 types dynamic and static
html css bootstrap use cgesthey static
if we use js then it chamges to dynamic
html,css doesnot have logic implementation
js is a programming language because it has logic implementation
 
Syntax:
 it is nothin but grammer or it can be defined as rules
 variables are nothing but containers
 we use programs to solve problems .
for handling data we have to store the data to store them we use containers they are present at the main memory of the computer.

constants or literals:
the values which cannot be changed are called constants.

keywords are the words that have predefined meaning in a programming language. 
var and let are the keywords.
let x; here the container is created
x=6; 6 is stored in the container.
semicolon os not mandatory.
variables can be changed. 
variable name shd not be equal to the keywords
(let var_name;
var var_name;)
it shd not strt with a number.

comments :
they can be written by using //
or /* --------- */
comment is a line in code that is not executed.
rules for naming variable:

they are also called identifiers.
they start with a-z or (A-Z)
they can strt with 

(let) lo manam arithematic operations ni use chyachu 

js ni test chydanki we can go to any webpage and click on console and type there any errors can be shown there if present
ikkada output ni dusplay chydankin weuse alert()
console.log ni manam output choodadanki use choostham

DATATYPES:

program lo data ni temporary ga use chestham daaniki manm variable 
use chestham and those different kinds of dta have different kinds 
of containers those are called DATATYPES

oke identifier lo most of the data store chyylantey we use arrays and they are stored in square brackets


arrays:
oka variable lo max oka element ni matrame store chygalam ala kakunda ekkuva elements ni store cheyagalgithey danne array antam 
basically array is an datatype.
const keyword must be used while using array
arrays are used for collections of data

Functions:

it is a block of code whichhas a name.
normal ga code ni okasare chyyachu if a code is written as a fuction then we can use the Functions ass our wish in multiple times
when we use function then the code gets cleared
debugging becomes easier(errors rectifier)

in js function can be written as

function(keywod)iss used

function functionname(arguments/parameters)
{
    --------
    --------   (block of code)
    --------
}
arguments/parameters

function defining
function calling

whenever the function is called we have to send a code

if the block of code is written to add 2 numbers

function add(a,b)
{
    let c=a+b;
    return c;  
}

let x=add(2,3)


classes and objects:

there is no classes in js we only have objects
numbers, words,characters,sentences,floating are the datatypes that are stored using objects.
properties or attributes are the same these are used to show real world entities 
they must show function asa well these show the functionality or behaviour
properties (variables)+functionality(functions) = objects( A new type of variable - a complex variable)

an object creation:

const person = {name:"panda",
                 age:"21",
                 grade:"a",
                 fullname: function(){
                    return this.surname+ " " + this. name;}
}
this is used for taking from local code 
return antey manaki kavalsina statement

DOM concept:
 document object model
  evry element in a doc of a html is an object
  
                
 





